---
title: "Tempalay, なんて素晴らしき世界 (Nante Subarashiki Sekai), 2018"
date: "2019-05-07"
categories: 
  - "eng"
tags: 
  - "review"
---

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/44sckHW5kHPrlFjffVzkI4" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>?si=4jnQf9N5RCCpUnaPvW2FgA

When I found that RM (from BTS) was listening to Tempalay's "どうしよう (dooshiyou)" I was very excited since it was one of my most favorite songs then. The song starts with slightly out-of-scale riffs which have a dislocating feeling. After a sudden glitchy edit, the band's vocalist Ryoto Obara begins to sing with the mesmerizing guitar and the bold beat, embraced by their multi-instrumentalist AAAMYYY's backing chorus. I was not satisfied with the cheesy vid but I couldn't help watching it over and over and over. I thought RM might feel the same way as me.

{{< youtube TRpAf1aqw3g >}}

Tempalay is a Japanese psychedelic rock band, whose music apparently resonates with the Aussie star band Tame Impala (oh, their names resembles each other btw). Raw, lo-fi, and strangely chill. Listening to them is like a lucid dream or a psychedelic trip without losing minds. The band was formed in 2014 and officially debuted in 2015 by the EP Instant Hawaii. It took only two years to take 'em Austin, Texas to play at SXSW 2016. They've been so prolific that they've released three EPs and two full-length from 2015 to 2018, even they're gonna release their third full-length 21世紀より愛をこめて (can be translated like _From 21st century with love_) this June.

なんて素晴らしき世界 _(Nante Subarashiki Sekai,_ which means _What a wonderful world)_ is their third EP which includes "どうしよう" the single mentioned above. As the original bass player Yuya Takeuchi left the band in 2018, the former support player AAAMYYY, who's also known for her solo career as a beatmaker officially joined in. Since she was not a proper bass player (she mostly play samplers and synths) welcoming her in the band led them a more eclectic sound, featuring a variety of instruments and electronics. For example, "テレパシー (Telepathy)" has 808 in its verse, popping electronic sound effects in the chorus, and AAAMYYY's rap is also featured in the bridge.

{{< youtube CxT89BLe5iE >}}

Moreover, you may hear more elaborate and tricky songwriting in songs like "SONIC WAVE", which has a lot of sudden scene changes, or "Last Dance", which heavily features metric modulations. Yes. The ensemble is pretty tight. The songs are well-written and playful. I bet their upcoming 21世紀より愛をこめて is gonna be their true breakthrough. Fortunately, they just released a single called "のめりこめ、震えろ。(Nomerikome, furuero.)", roughly translated like "Lose yourself and shiver". I'll listen to it and lose myself as they ask me to do.

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/3XQnittvPtZGzJrsqAwlkN" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>?si=uY1LaZz-QtWodbJIS6sXfA
