---
title: "江沼郁弥 (ENUMA Fumiya), #1 (2018)"
date: "2019-05-15"
categories: 
  - "eng"
tags: 
  - "review"
---

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/1THXec52uSoXkXNJvMLUNy" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>?si=DkYFLWLfTrCojM-I6lu9Qw

Enuma Fumiya's _#1_ is his first full-length as a solo singer-songwriter. After the break-up of plenty in 2017, the introspective frontman of the band took some synths and a daw into his hands instead of the guitar. While plenty's music was characterized by the shoegaze-like guitar noise with catchy melodies--say, very "indie" in a sense--the album was completely rid of such catharsis. It was like something between psychedelic folk and alternative r&b which could be compared to James Blake's or Frank Ocean's seminal works. I would say that he was finding another way to express his thought with a great delicacy. And he actually did it.

{{< youtube XhwdiUb4uyw >}}

{{< youtube rT5xqVVbhew >}}

In the endless reverberation and infinite echoes, his voice tells us how he's sad and desperate. This sadness once used to be quite dramatic and ecstatic especially when he was with his band, but now it's more nuanced as he elaborates the sound design. Every sound of the album is deliberately modulated to express feelings that couldn't be said with words. M9 "take my hands" is the best example I think. The guitar loop is granulated and pitch-shifted voices are haunting the entire song. The song sounds like memories suspended in the air, slowly falling into oblivion.

From this March, Enuma has released three singles which would be featured in the new album. These three songs, "うるせえんだよ", "偽善からはじめよう", and "積み木くずし" are more friendly in sound but much more pessimistic in words. FYI "うるせえんだよ" and "偽善からはじめよう" can be respectively translated like "Shut the fuck up" and "Let's begin with hypocrisy", both are very shocking as song's name. However, while he sings about his distrust of the people and the impossibility of mutual understanding, he is also breaking the walls of creativity.

{{< youtube hileNn5rvhE >}}

{{< youtube DSgIVQTSSOc >}}

Enuma recently plays his show with a young and mysterious band 木 (ki), one of the most anticipated new comer in Japan. Among music lovers, they're known for an eccentric and minimalistic approach with a definite pop sense. Their avant-garde pop rendered in a smooth R&B flavor, which is 木's signature style, certainly resonates with Enuma's solo works (check out the band's debut EP _Vi_ below). This collaboration is pretty fascinating to me. I'd like to watch their show someday this year.

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/6iPqeNBLAccQagGIV4voJE" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>?si=cquLxgKQSbGloPb\_1QSGsA
